==================
Multilingual Usage
==================

.. include:: substitutions.txt
|CCBYSA|_ `Frank Bennett <https://twitter.com/fgbjr>`_

------------------------

------------
Introduction
------------

Zotero itself provides some nice multilingual support, and it is
continuously improving. All content is stored in Unicode; the locale
used for labels and date forms in generic styles can be changed
easily; and search functions recognize Asian scripts.

|jurism| adds the ability to store language variants of individual
fields, and flexible support for selecting the variants used in
citation output. Those two features add significant complexity, and
some functionality, and conventions for its use, are not obvious on
the surface. This section provides guidance notes to help users
explore the possibilities for support of multilingual research
projects.

--------------------------
Original-language metadata
--------------------------

The first and most important principle is that item metadata should
always be recorded in the original language in the first instance.
Translations and transliterations can be entered later as they are
needed; but the purpose of a citation is to lead the reader or the
researcher back to the original source. If the title of a document in
Russian, Khmer, Laotian or Japanese is entered as an English
translation, data is lost---the reader is forced to guess at the
original title if they want to find the original document. Therefore,
all item metadata (except for dates) should be recorded in the
original language. The variants can be added separately at a later
time.

